# Best Practices for a New Blazor Web App

## Question

**Pau** asked on 05 Jun 2025

I am brand new to Telerik. I am beginning a new Blazor application in Visual Studio and would like to know what best practices I should follow regarding the structure of my application. For example: Should I start with a Telerik project and then add SQL Server and authentication (Identity - Individual Accounts) later? Or is it best to scaffold these first and then add Telerik after they are setup? If I start with a Microsoft Blazor Web App, are there best practices for replacing the standard Microsoft themes with Telerik themes? Are there best practices for connecting Telerik to SQL Server data? Thanks in advance for your help.

## Answer

**Dimo** answered on 06 Jun 2025

Hi Paul and welcome to the Telerik community!>> Should I start with a Telerik project and then add SQL Server and authentication (Identity - Individual Accounts) later? Or is it best to scaffold these first and then add Telerik after they are setup? The most flexible approach is to create a standard Blazor app with the desired configuration and then add the Telerik Blazor components. This is because the Telerik New Project Wizard does not manage non-Telerik project template features like authentication. If you are using the Blazor Web App template, it's highly recommended to use Global interactivity location. Generally, we provide a Blazor app conversion wizard, so that you don't have to add the Telerik components manually. However, we recently discovered an issue with missing Telerik namespaces in _Imports.razor, so for the time being, add the namespaces manually, or use the fully manual approach, which is described at: Getting Started (more basic guides) Workflow Details (with more details and tips) I would claim that it's good to have an idea about the setup process, so going the manual path a few times is beneficial.=====>> If I start with a Microsoft Blazor Web App, are there best practices for replacing the standard Microsoft themes with Telerik themes? I am not sure what do you mean by "Microsoft theme". Perhaps it's the default app UI and CSS styles? You can safely remove everything and start from scratch with the Telerik components you prefer. We do not require any of the default UI in the standard Microsoft Blazor apps.=====>> Are there best practices for connecting Telerik to SQL Server data? The Telerik Blazor components do not perform database requests and do not connect with data services directly. So, providing data depends entirely on your preference. See Telerik Blazor Components - Data Binding. Probably the main best practice is not to load large datasets with a single request, but this applies no matter if you use Telerik components or not. Regards, Dimo Progress Telerik
