# Blazor getting started - maybe add this note?

## Question

**Bit** asked on 18 Oct 2019

Our team has Devcraft UI now and Im pulling in the Blazor components, adding the requirements to a small existing project, where we are changing direction to use Blazor. Seems like I was confused about the same thing when I was going through the initial steps using the Kendo UI angular components. Anyway, on the "getting started" section [https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/getting-started/server-blazor](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/getting-started/server-blazor) Once I had the private Nuget feed setup, I started making the updates to the various project files. That's when it wasn't exactly clear on these sections. Maybe use these notes to update this section to help others? Im starting from new Blazor server app that I had created previously, and was integrating it within my solution. In this "getting started" section, if one is creating a new project from ground zero, are the telerik components and settings somehow added to a new project via the project template? In other words, the docs make it appear that after you create a new project, you're done and ready to start using telerik components on a new page. So then, in the section under "add to existing project" (3) HTML It wasn't clear what the names of the other themes were. Putting a link here or just listing the bootstrap and material theme names might help. Also wasn't clear if one was to replace any existing css being used, eg. The bootstrap css file. (4) HTML Again, should one add this new script reference or replace the default? So for ~/Pages/_Host.cshtml the end result is to be this: <script src="_content/telerik.ui.for.blazor/js/telerik-blazor.js" defer></script> or this: <script src="_framework/blazor.server.js"></script> <script src="_content/telerik.ui.for.blazor/js/telerik-blazor.js" defer></script> (5), (6) & (7) were straightforward On a side-note, maybe it was just me, in the docs, it is after all saying to add these pieces, not to replace anything already there in an existing Blazor project.

## Answer

**Marin Bratanov** answered on 19 Oct 2019

Hi BitShift, Thank you for your feedback. I have added some clarifying sentences to the tutorial to denote that the VS extensions give you things ready to go, and that if you follow the steps yourself you need to continue to adding the Telerik components section. I have also added examples of the client and server syntax for the themes in their dedicated article, together with examples of the URLs for the other themes. I also highlighted that you add the Telerik JS Interop in addition to the framework scripts. Those changes are now live here, here and here, and you can find the "source" diff here. You'll also find your Telerik points updated as a small "thank you" for sharing these suggestions. On a side note, you can also open issues and even pull requests in our docs repo for such things, if you find that more comfortable. Regards, Marin Bratanov
