# FormAutoGeneratedItems - custom rendering?

## Question

**Mic** asked on 01 Jun 2023

Are there any examples or suggested methods of modifying the way FormAutoGeneratedItems renders? I understand that I can do individual fields with templates - but for the most part we only need a minor tweak (add red * for required fields). There may be an obvious approach, but I don't yet see it - looking to see if anyone has done anything similar

## Answer

**Dimo** answered on 06 Jun 2023

Hi Michael, You can add the * symbol in the Display Name data annotation attribute. Otherwise you will need explicit FormItem tags with a LabelText or Hint or Class parameter. Using custom CSS styles will allow you to set a color to the asterisk. <TelerikForm Model="@PersonModel"> <FormItems> <FormItem Field="@nameof(Person.FirstName)" LabelText="First Name" Class="required-field"> </FormItem> <FormItem Field="@nameof(Person.LastName)" LabelText="Last Name" Class="required-field"> </FormItem> <FormItem Field="@nameof(Person.DOB)" LabelText="Date of Birth" Hint="Not required..."> </FormItem> </FormItems> </TelerikForm> <style>.required-field.k-form-label::after { content: "*"; color: red; padding-left: . 4em;
} </style> @code {
public Person PersonModel=new Person();

public class Person {
public int Id { get; set; }
public string FirstName { get; set; }
public string LastName { get; set; }
public DateTime DOB { get; set; }
}
} Regards, Dimo

### Response

**Michael** commented on 06 Jun 2023

Thanks Dimo. Just a wish list item, but if FormAutoGeneratedItems could recognize the [Required] attribute from the model and append the "required-field" class - that would be perfect. I like use of the FormAutoGeneratedItems because it handles the display name, etc For the time being, we will pivot to using individual form items
