# SchedulerResources Keep current field in state update

## Question

**Chr** asked on 08 Aug 2024

Hello, I am using TelerikScheduler, and the calendar events are generated by Microsoft Graph API. In my current logic, I retrieve an updated list of calendar events every 3 minutes. Scenario would be a user row in scheduler was double clicked, and the scheduler edit popup window is open with SchedulerResource defaulted to the selected user. If during the edit, the drop down for SchedulerResource is switched to another user, but if the updated logic in 3 minutes take place, the SchedulerResource goes back to original selected user from the double click event. Is there a way to keep the currently selected user during my updated list event?

## Answer

**Nadezhda Tacheva** answered on 13 Aug 2024

Hi Christopher, I'd like to first share my understanding of the problem to ensure we are on the same page. Let's use this demo for reference: Scheduler - Resources. Example scenario: I double-click on the "Car Service" appointment to open it for edit. In the edit popup, I see that the Manager resource associated with this appointment is "Bob". I change the resource from the dropdown to let's say "Alex". The issue you are referring to is that if the 3-minute update service takes place while the edit popup is still open, it will override my resource choice and will revert it back to "Bob". Is that correct? The Scheduler does not yet expose a State feature, so you can manage the edit item, though. I voted for the request on your behalf and you can follow it to get status updates. However, even when this feature is available, I would still recommend implementing a logic in the service that does not update the appointments while the user edits an item. Otherwise, it is possible that the service overrides the user updates. Currently, it is possible to detect if the user started editing of an item by handling the OnEdit event. You may raise a flag based on which you can determine whether to call the update service. You can toggle the flag back in the OnUpdate and OnCancel events to keep a proper indication that the user is no longer editing. This, however, is just a suggestion. The exact implementation may vary depending on your preferences and the app needs. Regards, Nadezhda Tacheva

### Response

**Christopher** commented on 13 Aug 2024

Yes, the scenario you posted is exactly what I am referring to. I believe your suggestion with the OnEdit event is what I am looking for. Thank you.
