# SchedulerPopupEditSettings MaxHeight

## Question

**Wil** asked on 29 Jan 2025

When setting: <SchedulerPopupEditSettings MaxHeight="600px"> </SchedulerPopupEditSettings> The height of the popup is larger than the browser window on a screen where the screen resolution is 3840x1600 and the browser is maximized. Moreover, there is no visible change to the height of the pop-up with or without the setting. I also attempted to use the TelerikWindow as such: <TelerikWindow Modal="true" Size="WindowSize.Medium" Visible="@CustomEditFormShown"> <WindowTitle> Playtest Data </WindowTitle> <WindowActions> <WindowAction Name="Close" OnClick="@RefreshData" /> </WindowActions> <WindowContent> @* This component is in the Pages folder *@<PlaytestEditor Playtest="@CurrentPlaytest" OnPlaytestChanged="@RefreshData" /> </WindowContent> </TelerikWindow> Here's the whole thing: <PageTitle> Playtest | Calendar </PageTitle> <TelerikScheduler class="text-center mt-5" @ref="@SchedulerRef" Data="@Playtests" @bind-Date="@DefaultDate" @bind-View="@DefaultView" OnUpdate="@UpdatePlaytests" OnCreate="@AddPlaytest" OnDelete="@DeletePlaytest" OnEdit="@EditHandler" ConfirmDelete="true" AllowCreate="true" AllowDelete="true" AllowUpdate="true" IdField="@(nameof(SessionModel.ID))" RecurrenceRuleField="@(nameof(SessionModel.RecurrencRule))" RecurrenceExceptionsField="@(nameof(SessionModel.RecurrenceExceptions))" RecurrenceIdField="@(nameof(SessionModel.RecurrenceID))"> <SchedulerSettings> <SchedulerPopupEditSettings MaxHeight="600px"> </SchedulerPopupEditSettings> </SchedulerSettings> <SchedulerViews> <SchedulerDayView WorkDayStart="@WorkDayStart" WorkDayEnd="@WorkDayEnd" /> <SchedulerWeekView WorkDayStart="@WorkDayStart" WorkDayEnd="@WorkDayEnd" /> </SchedulerViews> </TelerikScheduler> <TelerikWindow Modal="true" Size="WindowSize.Medium" Visible="@CustomEditFormShown"> <WindowTitle> Playtest Data </WindowTitle> <WindowActions> <WindowAction Name="Close" OnClick="@RefreshData" /> </WindowActions> <WindowContent> @* This component is in the Pages folder *@<PlaytestEditor Playtest="@CurrentPlaytest" OnPlaytestChanged="@RefreshData" /> </WindowContent> </TelerikWindow>

## Answer

**Tsvetomir** answered on 31 Jan 2025

Hello Will, Thank you for the provided code snippets. I tried to recreate the described behavior on my end within this REPL sample app. As a result, the Scheduler popup does not exceed the set MaxHeight. This leads me to think that, I'm missing something from the actual configuration. As a next step, please modify the REPL example to reproduce the issue and send it back to me for inspection. This will help me see the behavior first-hand and troubleshoot the issue further. Additionally, can you provide a screenshot or a screen recording of the behavior that you are encountering? I'm looking forward to hearing back from you. Regards, Tsvetomir Progress Telerik
