# Show hint in a form template

## Question

**Mar** asked on 24 Jan 2023

How can I show a hint when using a formtemplate? I am using code code like this validation messages for templated Form items But are missing the Hint for a consistent layout. Also why not add change events to the FormItem

## Answer

**Yanislav** answered on 27 Jan 2023

Hello Martin, Let me address your questions below: How to include Hint when a Template is used. On one hand, the Hint attribute relies on our built-in rendering. On the other hand, the FormItem <Template> allows full customization of the rendering. As a result, the two properties are mutually exclusive. So if you want to include a hint you have to add it in the template: <FormItem...> <Template>... <div class="k-form-hint"> Enter your first name </div> <TelerikValidationMessage For="@(()=> MyModel.FirstName)" /> </Template> </FormItem> OnChange event to a <FormItem> tag in an autogenerated form The <FormItem> tag does not expose an OnChange event that you may handle. You may instead use a FormItem Template, render the appropriate editor and subscribe to its OnChange. For example, if the "First Name" field is a string, you may render a Textbox component and handle its OnChange to perform the name check. Side note: The OnUpdate event for the Form can be suitable if you want to track the changes in the fields. It may be useful for your scenario as this event will fire after a change in any of the editors. It provides the field name from which the change was triggered. I hope this information helps. Regards, Yanislav
